# How to Work Effectively In a Team?
To work effectively in a software team, you need to have designated roles and responsibilities. Assign a leader for your team - this person will be responsible for making sure everyone on the team is on track and making progress. Once you have a team leader, figure out who will be working on the different parts of the project - Frontend, Backend, UI, AI/ML. Each of these parts can be assigned to a different team member, based on their skills and interests.

This way, nobody should have overlapping responsibilities, and you can make sure that everyone is working on the parts of the project that they are best suited for. This will also avoid merge conflicts when trying to push code to GitHub.

Throughout the time you are working with your team, communication is key. Make sure to communicate with your team members and keep them updated on the progress of the project. The team leader should coordinate with everyone to set up meeting times throughout the week. Throughout the week, share daily updates with your team members on what you worked on for the past couple days, what you are currently working on, and what you'll be working on next. This is how engineering teams at most companies operate.

Asking for feedback is also important. Make sure to ask for feedback from your team members and use it to improve your work. For example, if you are working on the frontend / UI you should ask the backend / AI/ML team members for feedback on the UI and vice versa. Getting different perspectives is extremely valuable, and everyone can learn from one another. Also, displaying any form of data on the frontend will rely on a backend API route. This is why the team member responsible for Frontend should be in constant communication with the team member responsible for Backend. Any disconnect between the two and the project can be delayed.
